just take a look at this little lot
there's never been such a mouth-watering
selection of hot hatches
there are bulls out power mongers fine
handling circuit bashes and new versions
of old Phaedrus for which one's best
well we're gonna whittle down the
candidates and submit our two favorites
to tip he'll pass final judgment in his
court of fast laps so Johnny what'd you
reckon mate well to be honest from where
I'm stood I'm thinking I'll take any one
of them home thanks very much
you immediately drawn to civic but
that's probably because it's the newest
car here and every time I look at that
group I can't help but being drawn back
to the good old solid golf GTI well it
is definitive much like the biro and the
Hoover yeah true true kind of a plug I
think what better gun with it okay first
one I'll tell you what this is this is a
master three and yes right it's quite a
forgettable looking vehicle forgettable
this is what is it this is the most
powerful car here 256 brakes this has
got so much talks there it feels like
one of the wheels has got 40 psi and the
other one's about 10 it looks like it is
a large shopping cart it's a librarian
yeah it's librarian car absolutely
hooligan
this is like you know when you drink too
much and you think you can run really
fast and you'll do it for about 10
seconds and then you actually run into
something cause you're drunk because you
veer off that's what that is you're
constantly fighting it it's like a brawl
with a car it's 240 horses isn't it it's
just that it's an Astra and it bleeps I
don't leave the keys the SATs have done
a pretty weird job I've done if I like
it it's too curvy for me it looks good
at certain angles I've got to say that
237 brake and every time I Drive it I
get out of it and just think yeah it's
fast but I just don't get involved with
it and a hot hatch should be more than
that it should be visceral she'll be
fingertip stuff and you should feel what
you're doing with it it should involve
you
in the in silver that looks surprise any
sense of all yeah but most people have
them in orange with great big stripes on
it and they look quite hooky
the focus has got a good combination of
power with controls but also it's dead
practical I mean it is essentially just
the focus and this isn't cheap I want to
talk about them again
can I just show you one thing instead
just follow just like that's made of
KitKat rapids this is 230 horses
turbocharged like most the other ones
III think this is a very very high
contender it's it's a good-looking body
shape its confident that it is it's not
it doesn't look good
deciding wasn't easy but after a couple
of arm wrestles we narrowed the original
7 down to four to continue sorting the
wheat from the chaff
we headed to Birmingham where there's
potholes and traffic lights and girls at
bus stops to see which car impressed the
most in the real world you know when you
go to the toilet in your own home it
always feels a little bit more special a
bit more relaxed they're more satisfied
that's exactly what the mark-5 Dolf is
like the GTI 30th anniversary edition
means you've got a little bit of extra
body kit you got some alloy wheels and
you've got 20 extra horsepower on top of
197 that you had in the fourth
and it'll do over 35 miles to the gallon
so what that
respect respect this is the cheapest car
in our group you can actually get into
one foot under 18,000 pounds which is
incredible value it's got suspension
that when it's not you teeth out it's
got space it's got a lovely big turbo
engine that blends the power are than
just smacking you back like a baseball
bats are for heads you know there's a
real world everyday car you know
struggle to beat this the trouble with
the Ford Focus ST is that his name is
over far too quickly which is why I'm
very fond of this the rent the Renault
Sport carving at the name of this damn
car right
so this is the new honda civic type-r
it's only that one brake horsepower more
than the old car and it's actually got
slightly less torque but the trick with
the talk is actually comes inside
earlier than before so it feels more
gutsy
McGann Renault Sport 230 f1t slight
learning a Shakespearean play the rear
suspension is a torsion bar and it makes
the ride a little bit fidgety that could
get on your nerves after a while I think
I've learned its name now listen to it
just feels great the McGann Renault
Sport 230 f1 team are 36 I think as this
full name
like all Renault Sport cars this this
feels immensely fast and it also feels
very light you see the only doubt I have
is their longevity not necessarily the
mechanics but the rest of the packaging
around it what I mean by that is things
like buttons falling off door handles
dissolving but I know not seeing an old
shape the gun next to me not gonna make
eye contact just gonna burn him